---
layout: post
title: College Housing
date: November 27, 2013
desc: The little things you never think about when leasing from slumlords.
---
# Housing (What to Ask to Avoid the Amity Horor House)

At some point, everyone in college moves out of the dorms. They take to the streets, wrestle, fight, swear, and eventually turn to the slumlords. I've gone through the tussle. Twice actually. I think I've found the essential questions that everybody needs to ask their slumlord before you sign your soul away. Here we go:

1. *Garbage Disposal.* Believe it or not, these aren't standard. And they're so small that few people ever think of looking for them.
2. *Occupancy.* College kids are resourceful. We like to place two people in a room for one. Or one in a room for two. Not all single bedrooms hold two people. If this is an issue, check it out.
3. *Parking.* This is an interesting one. Some people care. Others don't. If the place has parking, see if it's covered/protected/used during football games. If you don't want the space, see if you can get give it up for lower rent.
4. *Noise.* Obviously, we can't control our neighbors, as much as we'd like to. But check to see what vetting the owners do. If they're thorough, or don't like partiers, you might have an idea what your neighbors will be like before you move in.
5. *Utilities.* Will you be paying for your room's part of the water, or 1/8 of the whole building? If the upstairs neighbors decide to turn their living room into a swimming pool, you might be paying for it. (College Pro Tip: Bring water wings. You'll use them.)
6. *Heating.* Is there A/C? Who controls the thermostat? Will the apartment feel like the Sahara unless you slip the landlord a 20 every couple days?
7. *Cleaning.* College kids are a messy bunch. The issue with that is that college kids' messes often cover up more important issues. I toured an apartment once and the tenants complained about spiders. They found them everywhere. On their beds. In the kitchen. I'm sure they've consumed more than their 7 lifetime spiders. I didn't sign for that place. Couldn't figure if the spiders were because of the beer bottles and the covered floor or because of the faded, chipping walls.
8. *Location.* Where the house is on a map isn't the issue. What the map looks like on Friday night or 5am Monday morning does. Do garbage trucks pass by? Do the football players? Does your new street look like a scene from one of those terrible teen high school party movies?

I'll probably end up adding more here as I think of them. My point is this: slumlords are some of the most creative people on the planet. The world has lost too many future Da Vincis and Picassos because of the slumlord industry. Outsmart them.

